[Term Entry] Lua Math .ceil() (#3449)
Codecademy/docs: content/lua/concepts/mathematical-library/terms/ceil/ceil.md

---
Title: '.ceil()'
Description: 'Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to x.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Game Development'
Tags:
  - 'Math'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-lua'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`.ceil()`** function in Lua's Math library rounds up a given number to the smallest integer that is greater than or equal to th given number. The given number can be a positive or negative number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.ceil()`** function in Lua's math library rounds up a given number to the smallest integer that is greater than or equal to the passed value. The given number can be a positive or negative number.
```

## Syntax

> ```lua

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```pseudo
```

math.ceil(x)
```

> - `x`: A number that is round up to the smallest integer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `x`: The number to be rounded.
```

## Example

```lua
local num1 = 14.4
local num2 = -22.5

local ceilNum1 = math.ceil(num1)
local ceilNum2 = math.ceil(num2)

print(ceilNum1)
print(ceilNum2)
```

> 

Reviewer: There should be a line here like -
"This will result in the following output:"

```shell
15
-23
```

> In the example above, `math.ceil()` is used to round `num1` (14.4) up to the smallest integer, resulting in `15`. Similarly, `math.ceil()` is used to round `num2` (-22.5) up to the smallest integer, resulting in `-23`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, `math.ceil()` is used to round a pair of values.
```

Reviewer: move this sentence above the Lua code block

---
Title: 'ceil()'

> Description: 'Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to x.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Returns the smallest integer greater than or equal to a given value.'
```
